>> Francesca Sadikin: Preparing for
Promotions.
So here's another prompt,
is it enough to just work hard and
deliver good quality code if you
want to climb up the career ladder?
No, yes [LAUGH] okay.
>> Speaker 1: [INAUDIBLE] to notice.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Exactly, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Advocate for yourself.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Advocate for
yourself, exactly.
So it's interesting cuz some people really
know that you have to have to advocate for
yourself.
And others maybe culturally we just think
we don't need to talk about it too much,
and I definitely grew up in a culture
like that, but you guys are right.
Look at it this way, your managers and
leadership are busy, right?
They actually appreciate
any visibility you give
them into your work and its impacts.
You maybe think, all right, my manager
needs to hear about my accomplishments,
but shouldn't that come from others?
While it's wonderful that
peers acknowledge your work,
relying solely on them is very risky,
because people are busy.
And if you're not advocating for yourself,
your contributions might go unnoticed,
and silence can easily be mistaken for
inactivity, which is not
a narrative you wanna build.
At the end of the day promotions,
despite all of these processes and
paperwork you probably have to fill out,
it is still a subjective decision made by
people and that decision depends on trust.
Can they trust you to take
on more responsibility?
If they're unaware of your impact and
achievements,
they cannot confidently entrust you with
more challenges and more responsibilities.
So remember, owning your narrative
is not about self-promotion,
it's not arrogance,
it's about creating clarity and trust.
Your work has value, and it's important
that those in leadership understand and
appreciate your contributions.
So how do you actually do that?
What I like to do is create a brag doc.
So this is a personal document
that you are hosting somewhere
where you start accumulating
all of your work.
And most importantly if you
have metrics of some kind to
show the impact of that work,
that would be even better.
I like to use
the situation-behavior-impact format to
essentially outline what happened,
what my actions were, and
then the results of that action.
Bonus point,
this is probably the format you need
to talk about in behavioral interviews.
It's probably what you paste into
the promotion dockets as well, and
you probably can use a shortened
version of it in your resume.
So think of it as like writing it
once use it in four different places,
create regular communication loops.
So, just like we talked about before with
the feedback loops that you want to get,
you also wanna be sharing all of the
successes that you've been doing, right?
If you receive positive feedback
from anyone you're working with,
ask them to put it in writing,
send it to you.
Take a screenshot,
put it in your brag doc, and
then send it over to your manager.
You wanna be continuously sending that
kind of information back to your manager.
And lastly, understand the promotion and
rewards process before you
actually want that promotion.
So maybe a year, a year and
a half beforehand.
You wanna start having conversations with
your manager and be like I'm trying to go
for that, where do you think I am
compared to what I'm supposed to be.
And so now you have that time frame to
continuously focus on those things and
checking with your manager
whether you're on track.
So that when it's time for promotions
you're not gonna be as surprised about
whether you're gonna get it or not.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
despite all of the pros of surfacing your
accomplishments, people still
have hesitations, right?
And so hesitations,
it still feels really arrogant.
Or this work was really done as a team,
I'm not really sure how to extract my
own impact when we did it as a team.
Or I'm not really sure this is
actually an accomplishment at all.
And I'm not sure if anyone's actually
doing this because usually it's
done behind closed doors,
I swear to you, everybody is doing this.
So, to learn a little bit more about
overcoming some of these hesitations,
I recommend these two books,
if you wanna go into it.
How women rise is specific for women,
the cultural norms that we were raised
with, and what we need to overcome.
They're different from what
men traditionally experience.
So if you're a guy, I recommend what
got you here won't get you there.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So we're coming
up on our preparation takeaways,
where we're wrapping up
the preparation section.
So some things to keep in mind, right?
To deliver work efficiently and
understand the code base,
I really recommend,
again, that shadowing and
pair programming experience to just
help you deliver that much faster.
Remember that quality code is actually
about making code maintainable and
easy to change.
Use tests to understand systems and
help yourself work safely and
embrace test driven development, even if
your company doesn't really care about it.
I actually think it's really useful for
you individually as a software engineer.
It's important to have
a clear debugging process and
then to help you execute
tasks more effectively.
Think about gathering more information,
improving your estimation skills,
and changing the way you
start working on tasks.
And make sure to overcommunicate.
And lastly,
be proactive in asking for help and
continue to surface your achievements
to help you continue growing.